ようこそカルフォルニアSquaw Valleyへ。みなさん泊まったとと思いますが問題はなかったですか（会場笑い）昨年よりは悪くなったでしょう。このイベントの最後に来年の開催地をアナウンスしますが、さらにたどり着くのが大変なところになります。みなさん参加できますので、夜のレセプションも忘れずに。マッドスライド（カクテル名）を楽しみましょう。まだ早い？（笑）あと、バレンタインデーですね、一緒に過ごしてくれてありがとう。このイベントは広げたいですが、来年度はバレンタインデーには当たらないようにしないといけませんね。
 ただ、家族連れというのもいいかもしれませんね。存知ないかもしれませんが、今週のこのイベントではフリーチャイルドケアも用意していて、私を含めて多くの人がお子さんたちを連れてきています。私の8才の娘が走り回っているのを見た方がいるかもしれませんね。このイベントをたくさんの人が来て楽しめる場にしたいです。
 このイベントで大事なのは、みなさんがお互いによい関係を作っていく、ということでしょう。その目的にむかって、ぜひしてほしいと思うのは、いままで知らなった人と今週知り合いになってほしいということです。今年の参加者は、信じられないくらいスペシャルです。オープンソースのあらゆる切り口のグループの人たちが来ています。Open Source Program Officeを率いている人もいれば、世界最大のオープンソースプロジェクトをマネージしている人もいて、かたやテレコム領域で何10億人もの加入者向けにオープンソースをデプロイしている人もいれば、自動車向けにオープンソースを使う人もいます。まさにオープンソースの頼れる人たち（Rocks)がこのイベントに来ているということで、私たちはみなさんが知り合いになりネットワークができるよい機会となるようスケジュールを作りました。ぜひこの機会を活用してください。
 take advantage of
that that opportunity I do want to take
a minute to thank our sponsors including
Intel VMware Delhi MC and IBM let's give
them a quick round of applause as i
mentioned we're having a reception
tonight at five thirty in the ballroom
fire again mud slides will be available
in addition to beer and wine 
少しだけ、スポンサーへの謝辞を。インテル、VMware、Dell、IBMへ拍手をお願いします。お伝えしたように今夜は、5:30からレセプションがあります。さっきもお伝えしたように、ビールとワインとマッドスライドも用意してあります。

and thentomorrow going to have
themed receptions throughout the hotel
this will be an opportunity for people
to go to sort of different thematic
network get-togethers and really again
get to know each other so that we can
all do good work together in the future
そして、明日はテーマ別のレセプションがホテルでありますので将来につながるよう、この機会を使って違ったテーマの人たちと知り合いになってください。

and then we also have an open space for
unconference session so if you have a
topic you'd like to discuss ah the
signup board is in the foyer so just go
ahead and find the unconference session
sign up and people will be able to do
that as well so again I want to thank
all of you for coming


 and then give you
a little linux
foundation is at this year this is our
annual member event and we're really
happy year
we just at this
event this been a good
year for the linux foundation in 2017 is
already shaping up to be a really good
year you know one of the things that
we're really focused on is having a big
impact on creating the greatest shared
technology investment in the world and
it's not just us you know our mission
really is to create the largest share of
technology investment in the world by
making open source code available for
anyone to use to propose it's
not just the Linux Foundation there are
other foundations it's Mike malinka
bitching around here somewhere from the
Eclipse right there Mike malinka bitch
from the Eclipse Foundation in the back
of the room there thank you for coming
his organization like ours is again
dedicated to the same thing to
make a lot of source code available to
as many people as possible and on the
linux foundation's and to that end we've
had in the number of
organizations and people that we work
with I think the 827 member companies
the most foundation is already out of
date like Michael boosters around here
somewhere we it's about 50 out of date
so we're going to we're going to
probably break a thousand organizations
participating in the Linux Foundation
this year which is a big milestone the
thing I'm most proud about that is the
fact that companies that are coming in
now from wholesale new sectors that
hadn't done a lot of open source work in
the past telecom automotive etc are
really learning how to do shared
software development understanding the
intellectual property regimes that open
source represent and just sort of
greasing the skids for broader low of
code which is incredibly important if
your admission is to create the greatest
shared technology resource in the world
last year we had over 20,000 attendees
at 150 events from 85 different
countries it's it is crazy where is
Angela and her team around here
somewhere let's give them a quick round
of applause
what we're going to add another 50
events this year aunt Angela
screaming right not actually
 and reduce the number
of n so we're combining some of events
but I'm going to talk about that in a
little bit one thing you might not know
about the Linux Foundation is we do a
lot of training we've trained over
800,000 students most of whom are take
our training courses at no cost we are
trying sure that the projects
that we work with have a set of
practitioners and developers that can
further increase the adoption of that
particular code not only that we have
training programs that are trying to
help the diversity in our communities
both in terms of gender we offer free
training scholarships for women's
organizations all over the world we've
also partnered with the goodwill in
Austin Texas where we're working with
people in poverty to give them job
skills technical skills through our
training curriculum and through a
hands-on mentor program to lift those
folks out of poverty single parents
folks who've seen hard times folks who
need good jobs a few
of the things we're doing around
training we're creating at the Linux
Foundation we did a little tally across
all the projects that just we're hosting
about 14 billion dollars worth of value
if you measure up the lines of code and
how much it cost on average to create a
line of code it's billions and billions
of dollars worth of value and certainly
Linux itself just continues to dominate
almost every aspect of modern computing
it runs almost all high performance
computing systems the majority of mobile
devices embedded systems most of the
world's economy the internet it's safe
to say runs on Linux so we're going to
continue and we hope all of you join us
and we know you're already working with
us to on those big outcomes
how can we really move the needle with
shared open-source software to really
make big impact on both industry and
society and you know one of the things
that I get asked about all the
I'm is you know you're doing so much
more than Linux when are you going to
change Foundation
and my response to that is I just made
up like all these vests and gave them
away to Africa pocket we're not change
in pin Hagan at least that for now but
no no name change but we really have
gone beyond Linux some of you may be
aware but many of you might not be aware
that of work around security
you're going to hear from Bruce Schneier
in a minute here about a world that is
facing increasing difficulty in trouble
when it comes to cyber security privacy
and other things we have an initiative
Oh that we're working with here called
let's encrypt there anyone here from the
let's encrypt projects a few people
 some folks let's encrypt is a free
certificate authority the idea behind
let's encrypt is to make HTTP as the
default for the Internet to secure all
internet traffic by creating a free
certificate authority this in 2016 for
the first time ever more than fifty
percent of internet traffic was secure
in large part thanks to let's encrypt we
can literally chart where let's encrypt
started to when the move the needle
started moving up in terms of secure
traffic across the internet and we want
to get that as high as we possibly can
our core infrastructure initiative is
working with projects that are sort of
the intersection between incredibly
important for the security integrity of
the global Internet and kind of screwed
up screwed up in terms of difficulty
getting funding have a requirement for
third-party audit need additional
eyeballs on the code things like openssl
ntpd other projects we're really that
initiative is about creating a culture
of secure coding practices for all open
source projects and helping fix open
source projects that haven't
traditionally gotten resources but are
important to society by providing them
funding and other resources as well if
you haven't seen the core infrastructure
initiative badging program which has
been adopted by some of
biggest open source projects in the
world check it out this is a way for
your project to indicate that you follow
secure coding practices have responsible
disclosure policy have a more efficient
way of making sure that security is part
and parcel to everything you do in code
in the networking sector we have lots of
new open source projects and that's only
getting bigger we're working with the
largest global operators in the world
you're going to hear this week from
organizations like AT&T last year we
partnered with China Mobile to announce
a management orchestration platform
they're essentially open sourcing the
network infrastructure that provides
service to billions of people all over
the world we're doing a lot of good work
to harmonize those projects you're going
to hear about throughout this week
in the cloud or cloud native computing
foundation with a project such as Cooper
Nettie's from me theists and others is
really leading the way in terms of the
modern micro service and container based
application development methodology that
that really is defining the way people
build apps today Cloud Foundry another
example of a platform that's being used
to create incredibly important
technology solutions for governments and
organizations throughout the world our
automotive Dan
kouchi in the room maybe not i did see
him at the bar late last night this is
is such a sleeper project linux
foundation that's going to have a huge
impact just as more and more production
vehicles roll out with the AGL code in
it this is CES this year Daimler
announced that they're joining our
automotive grade Linux initiative so now
we have Toyota daimler and a dozen of
the world's biggest automotive OEMs all
working together to create the future
automotive middleware and informatics
systems that really define what an
automotive cockpit experience it looks
like and then finally uh last year in
December I think with pretty much there
no we
we rolled of
work in December uh this month i think
 our block
chain initiative hyper lecher Brian
mellendorf will be here this week to
talk about it he runs that particular
initiative at the Linux Foundation
you're going to hear from Chris Ferris
from IBM about blockchain but
distributed lejacq technology is no
doubt changing the way that people are
creating trust transactions on the
 the
new trust protocol for the internet
hyper Ledger's technologies are being
deployed in financial service
applications that are really modernizing
the financial service back office you
know it takes a nanosecond to make a
trade with high-frequency trading
systems and it takes a week or two to
reconcile that trade on the back office
all that's going to be changed as large
organizations start using distributed
ledger technology to manage that back
office a trade will take
seconds minutes instead of days and
weeks and blockchain technology isn't
just about financial services you're
going to hear about how the hyper ledger
project is helping to work with
organizations like De Beers to track in
an immutable way the provenance of
diamonds in order to get blood diamonds
out of the system working with
governments to create immutable
transparent land registration systems to
prevent corruption in those governments
and to create a better society so as you
can see the linux foundation is working
on a much neater i haven't mentioned all
of our projects into those that haven't
mentioned but i can only do
so much in short period of time we're
working on a lot more than linux the
question that this group should ask the
leadership source and many of
our projects is why do we need
open-source foundations why do we need
the Linux Foundation like I won't speak
for you but it's a good question and you
know this something that in today's
political world has also come to a light
and recently we in this sort of make
sense we've seen a flurry of executive
orders and of the question came up in DC
as we
I'll give you a second to read the order
yeah too soon like we're in California
is an open source of that I figured this
is pretty safe crowd by the way this
order I'm not sure about but there was
another order related to the Linux
kernel where for every which is bloated
and sad and for every line of code added
to the colonel two lines of code must be
removed that one actually makes a lot
more sense to me but you know it's a
good question why do you need a
foundation you know there are millions
of open source projects out there I
think this also out of date
how what's the latest is anyone here
from github what's the latest github
repo number is it 50 1,000,000 is that
right whole week I got man this is
really I didn't make this very long ago
that 51 million open
source repository on github sourceforge
you know around a half a billion we've
got the asf with over 175 projects 300
in another managing around 300 and
another 15 incubation Mike idea I hope
I'm viewing your service here about 163
projects is that roundabout oh my God
look at this my numbers they're terribly
wrong my apologies the Pope no problem
no problem the point is there's a lot of
open source projects out there the real
question is which ones matter which ones
matter you know I mean does do the
remaining 30 million projects out there
that somebody put up for a good put
reason you know maybe they were working
on a PhD thesis or it was an undergrad
who is working on some experiment the
question I think to all of you so those
who run the profession of open source of
commercializing it of taking meaningful
dependency upon it right in the case of
some of the blockchain initiatives where
we're working with governments to take a
societal dependency upon an open source
project you really have to under
stand which matter where is that value
related to the number of projects and
and that's where think that we want
we think foundations should focus
helping projects create sustainable
ecosystem these are the ones that end up
mattering and they kind of grow up into
the left in that if you look at this
chart you know if you think about
foundations are trying to do we're
trying to kind of grow up into left in
this slide this look at reverse I always
liked up
into the right it's just to Silicon
Valley you know but the best projects
the projects that are meaningful and you
can count on for decades to come are
those who have a good developer
community solving a really big problem
where that code is used to create real
value value in the form of profit for
companies many of the companies that you
work for take open source code create
products or services and create real
profit that then is in turn reinvested
back into the project and when I say
reinvested back into the project I don't
mean reinvested back into a foundation
the foundations and Mike you're to
have to back me up on this like a tiny
little sliver of the economic activity
in an open source project the real cost
is the developers who actually work on
these projects that's where all the
major cost is driven in any open source
project it's easy to sign up for a
foundation membership it's much harder
to assign three four very expensive
specialized engineers that you've taken
a lot of time to train to go work on an
open source project collaboratively with
companies that maybe your competitors
but that's what ends up happening in the
best open source projects and we think
 the
foundation is to create that sustainable
ecosystem it's to work with projects
that solve a meaningful problem in
 the market to create really
good communities communities that have a
diversity of committers both in terms of
ization who are committing to the
project in terms of gender in terms of
race in terms of class in terms of
quality if there's no good code you
don't get to the second step here but
then having those very effective
communities be used to create really
interesting things you know the
production for a automotive
that's for a car is it's three years
when Toyota takes a bat on automotive
grade Linux they enter a three year
production cycle with their vehicles I
mean they're iterating the software
throughout that period but it's a big
long-term commitment to codes not good
if they don't think the ecosystem is
sustainable if they don't think the
project will be here they're not going
to make that investment right and that
 create value and profit may not be
the perfect word here I think value
because it's not always about profit i
think the you know if you ask the
government of georgia the country of
georgia who's using open-source
technology for their land registration
systems who's really rooting out a lot
of corruption in that country it's not
about profit it's about making better
society for their people but they then
in turn reinvest back in that project
that that society is dependent upon by
sending engineers by sending
requirements by sending bugfix so forth
lather rinse repeat if you ask anybody
works at the Linux Foundation what their
job is this is it if any of them tell
you anything differently when you ask
them give me their names now but this is
what all our projects are looking for so
you know people wadna why
are you eating
that purchase that spot to create these
sustainable ecosystems right and we know
what happens when projects fall out of
that that feedback loop look at openssl
I mean the internet was secured by two
guys named Steve ntpd you know Harlem
stand on his own keeping time on the
internet with a 30 year old code base
written and see that still in bitkeeper
and it's very hard to commit to that
sustainability loop is going more
and more important as open source
becomes more and more important to all
your companies to all society
to all of us as individuals and
ecosystems take real work this is what
foundation is do this is the details
this is what Mike's team my team do day
in day out we create a governance
structure where you can pool
intellectual property for long-term safe
harbor you have a development process
right making sure that individual
developers are the ones that are making
the decisions as opposed to companies
trying to mandate them this is that paid
this the pay-to-play myth right all our
projects have individual technical
steering committees where their role on
those technical steering committees go
with the person when opendaylight
started one of our early projects the
lead committer further on the tsc for
that project was a cisco employee who
have written a lot of the code base at
 quit
cisco went to red hat didn't lose this
position on the technical steering
committee see this creates them is
sustainable marketplace as well where
your organization are competing on the
market in
these important positions and that just
makes the project stronger that's that's
that's not a feature that's
been critically important to the success
of these projects right and it also just
so happens to improve the pay of
individual developers who work on these
projects who are committed to them and
who get in these important roles we
provide the infrastructure for projects
whether it's making sure that we have a
way to do a developer certificate of
origin with a github project or whether
it's a custom infrastructure for
brownfield networking deployments that
 of hardware to
test all this stuff where's Eduardo key
god knows what kind of hardware you
people need to test your project you
also need ecosystem development events
like this ways where people can get
together and solve problems I think it's
going to become more important to have
these kind of get together in a
structured way across project them
and talk that in a second we also
think that you need intellectual
property management tracking the code
making sure that trademarks are owned in
a neutral place making sure that
everyone understands that there's a safe
harbor
whether its trademarks whether its
copyright whether its patent regimes
we're creating structures to create this
neutral playing field because
open-source projects don't exist in
isolation we can do more the important
thing now is that none of this stuff
works without the other stuff and this
 almost a
random and you can the
categories and what is up there but what
really matters is how do we work across
these projects from a security point of
view having good secure coding practices
from a governance point of view how do
you make sure you raise up the
individual developer don't break what is
great about open source but help
underwrite that development so it's
sustainable make sure that the copyright
regimes the trademark regimes the patent
regimes are stable transparent and
 a wall
sorry subtle wall Joe Geddes can resist
a second shot and then provide training
and certification programs to get more
practitioners this is going to be
critical because as you go up and down
the staff we're changing nouns to verbs
meaning that networking as one example
you have a management orchestration
component an SDN controller you have
data plane services you have all these
different pieces that make up a
networking stack but those are nouns
what you really need is here's how I on
board of the NF how I orchestrate
something and that's going to call a
need cross-project cooperation common
configuration language is common data
modeling things that we all need to work
together not just inside of our projects
but across projects and that's what we
really want to get done at the Linux
Foundation and finally we think that
diverse communities across all of these
organizations are strong communities
this year the Linux Foundation is going
to provide hundreds of scholarships for
women and people in from
underrepresented communities to come to
all of our events free training programs
for them today we announced with the
National Center for Women in Technology
a training program an e-learning program
for all the speakers at our events where
you can sit down and I've taken this
spend about an hour so learning how
to better communicate with people who
are different from you and you're going
to see take this class will even give
you a special t-shirt and some schwag
for taking it looking at you right there
no but take it because one of the things
that you'll learn is that there is a
massive amount of scientific evidence
that shows how diverse communities
perform better than those that are not
how if you take a little bit of time to
learn how to stop interrupting people to
be a better person that you'll get
better outcomes we're really committed
to that at the Linux Foundation so
that's the update we're working on a ton
of different interesting projects
working both within our projects and
outside of our projects to create a
greater shared technology investment
which is our ultimate goal and to
give one final thank you too and I'm
going to go a little bit over here to
give this special thank you uh you know
the final thing I'd like to share today
is thank you to someone who's been
working at the Linux Foundation and one
of my proudest moments when at the Linux
Foundation if not when someone new comes
to work at the Linux Foundation although
I will say I was pretty cycling Brian
belen Dorf decided to come and work but
it's not when someone comes to the LF
it's when someone leaves it's when
someone leaves you know when Ian Murdock
may he rest in peace called me up and
said Jim I just got offered my dream job
at Sun Microsystems he was our CTO huge
pay increase I you know as a kid I just
everything about sun and solaris I love
it to go take this job I was
proud of that I wished him well when say
I'm Ramsey is Sam here this morning
somewhere around here when Sam Ramsey
called me up and said I just got offered
a job as the vp of product for
Google's compute platform big job I was
so proud of the fact that the guy was
running Cloud Foundry is now going to
that job and Neela Jacques has been
running our opendaylight project for
three years one of our earlier projects
is now leaving organization as well
he's to bain capital to become an
entrepreneur in residence there and I'm
so going on
to an opportunity where he is going to
go create new organizations and value at
one of the best venture capital firms in
the valley so you can just stand up nua
and give me a thank you don't worry
opendaylight is in good hands he'll Rob
with doing all the work anyway I do I
get a pleasant to fill Rob will be the
interim executive director and you need
not about that project enjoy this
week we've got so much to accomplish on
not just this week but an open source in
general the thing i always tell
developers or people who are working in
open source it's not the biggest problem
you'll have the biggest challenge it's
 that you think too small it's that
you don't think nearly big enough we can
all work together the great outcomes
we've already have are only going to get
better so have a great week and thank
you for listening to me this morning
